# MyEventApp-Android

## Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
- This app is an event tracking app for all event/appointment types. The major components that are necessary to achieve the app’s goals are the date and time of the event, the name of the event, a brief description of the event, and the choice to add, delete and edit an event as well by clicking the event after creation. The use of a grid system will help to provide this information clearly visible, yet separated, so that users are able to distinguish by category. Each row of the grid is one event and each column of the grid signifies the event information. The user needs this app was designed for are to keep track of events or appointments all in one place without having to use multiple appps.

## What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
- There are multiple screens in this design which consist of login screen, home screen, calendar screen, add event screen, history screen, and profile screen. For the purpose of this project, the screens that were focused on were the login, home, add event, and edit screens. The design of this app was simple on easy on the eyes. A dark design was used as the initial design. The tags and screens were created in a simple manner so that the UI is easily understood as soon as the app is opened. Adding and editting/deleting events was made using the same UI design so that everything was kept consistent. Consistency was one of the main focuses for this app and it is why the designs were successful.

## How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
- I approached coding this app in steps based on how a user would go through the app. I began with coding the login screen, then the fragments for each icon in the bottom navigation bar. Once the fragments were in place, I started coding the add/edit/delete screen functionality. I worked on creating one aspect at a time so that I can test and debug that part before moving on to the next. For example, with the login screen, I was having users log in without putting information in and it wasn't properly going through the if/else statement. Once I was able to get proper funcitonality I moved on to the next part. A lot of reading, trial and error coding, and videos were involved in creating this application. These techniques helped to create this app and made it work. I plan use the same techniques in the future so that I can persevere through the bumps in the road that come with coding. 

## How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
- Testing the code involved running the app multiple times to test for each time of input and button click. I tested each aspect of my if/else or switch statements, login with and without password, not inputting info and also I used Logs and Toast statements to assess functionality. Error logs were a huge part of debugging and testing for me as well. This process was critical in finding and fixing bugs. My login screen worked as intended seemingly but it was allowing users in without a login so once I realized that I had to fix it.

## Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
- The finalization stage is where I had to innovate to overcome challenges because a lot of the aspect of creating an app weren't covered in our material as in depth as we needed to create it. As stated previously, a lot of reading, trial and error coding and videos were involved in this process to overcome challenges and I am happy to say that my perseverence paid off.

## In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
- I believe creating the SQLite database was the particular component for this. It took a bit for me to see how it was coded and how queryies were written in Java for SQLite to take in arguments. I personally like working with the SQLite database and I want to learn more about it and SQL in general. I truly learned a lot of different aspects during the course of this project and I'm grateful for the knowledge I gained.
